INTRO:

Hello, my name is Maxim Van de Wynckel. I am a PhD student at the Vrije Universiteit Brussel and today I am presenting
a Solid-based architecture for decentralised interoperable location data. 

---

To start with some context; 
        The common architecture of current indoor positioning systems is a separate
        positioning system for each building or building site. Some positioning systems might
        use a common framework, which could allow the use of a single application for both buildings. 
        But for the majority of indoor positioning systems each system is an individual deployment with 
        its own proprietary application and without the ability to share information across systems.

        Most positioning system have a database containing the information about users or objects tracked 
        , but users often do not know what information is kept in those databases - or even
        how many databases with their information exist.

---

There are three main problems with this common architecture. Users are not always in control of their data,
        they do not know what positioning systems or applications are tracking them, what exactly they are storing and
        in the case of external tracking do not know how to stop them from being tracked. With users becoming more privacy concious,
        this lack of transparancy could result in users not using a certain positioning system application.
        
        In addition there is no interoperability between systems and applications that would allow the sharing of data or even allow users to use a single application for
        every indoor positioning systems that is available.

        In order for two or positioning systems to be interoperable. The data needs to be accessible by other systems.
        This means that the data pertaining to a certain user should be available for all positioning systems tracking
        this user. The data can range from raw sensor data to processed information such as their location within a building.

        Next, this data needs to be readable by each system that can access this data. In essence this means that there should
        be a common data format to store the information.

        Last but definitely not least, the readable data needs to be understandable by each system. Positioning systems must be
        able to know if the data they are reading is sensor data or something else. In what units the data is in and how they should interpret the data.

POC:

As a proof of concept we created three applications. An outdoor positioning system
that generates geographical location data along with the velocity and orientation of the user.

A QR scanner indoor positioning system that works as a room check-in and check out system
and finally a consumer application that can read all data created by these two positioning systems
and display this data using additional semantics.

---

For each application, the user logs in to their Solid Pod provider. After authenticating the app,
it is able to access data within the users Pod. In its initial state, the consumer application does not contain
any data yet.

---

The outdoor positioning system uses the geolocation api as a proof of concept that outputs geographical location
data along with the speed and orientation of the smartphone. The data generated by this system is stored in the Solid Pod
in the three resources of the respected properties. Additional semantics such as accuracy and altitude are also stored and
can be used by any other application. In the consumer app we now see the data generated by this system, including the orientation
and velocity. On the left you can see the data as it is available on the Pod itself in RDF format.

---

In the QR-scanner application, the user scans a QR code to check-in or check-out of a room. The QR code is a URL that
leads to an RDF resource containing information about the room itself, mainly its location, boundaries and hierachical position
within the building. These semantics will be shown in the consumer application as the green rectangle illustrating the room.


Conclusion:
In this work in progress paper we demonstrated how we could leverage Solid to create decentralised and interoperable
positioning system or navigation applications. This interoperability which is based on common specifications
 could offer the possibility of sharing information between systems to improve the handover of tracking, the ability to use a single application to navigate both outdoors and indoors in any
building that deploys an indoor positioning system or high level fusion when multiple positioning systems can share their
sensor readings with one and other.
The architecture is scalable by simply adding additional vocabularies in future work.

Thank you for your attention. If you have any questions, feel free to contact me.
